# Final
Idea Approved by: Quinn Lanik
Project Report
	I am a chemical engineering major, and in class we learned about an equation called the Van Der Waals equation. This equation is P=RT/(V-b)-a/V^2  where a=(27R^2 T_c^2)/(64P_c ), b=(RT_c)/(8P)_c  , T_c is critical temperature, P_c critical pressure, V is the specific volume, and R is the universal gas constant. This equation is used to find any of their variables  given the other four. Calculating P or T is simple and just uses basic algebra but, when trying to find  V you must find the roots. The equation for the roots is PV^3-(Pb+RT)V^2+aV-ab=0 this is a tedious prosses that would be a lot easier if I could automate it with MATLAB. There is also, anther equation that goes along with this, is if the system under inspection is adiabatically compressed. This means a system is compressed without  transferring heat or mass from the system to the surrounding, this equation is P_1 V_1^γ = P_2 V_2^γ. Where P1 is the initial pressure, V1 is the initial volume, P2 is the final Pressure, V2 is the final Pressure, and γ is the adiabatic factor.
  The way I designed my figure is that you must first calculate the specific volume given pressure, temperature, critical pressure and critical temperature. Once you do this you can calculate the new volume if the system is adiabatic compressed. I did this because the second volume relies on the first volume also, sometimes you do not need to calculate the second volume or when a system is not adiabatically compressed. Being able to switch from ATM to pascals or Celsius to kelvin with a flick of a switch was import because in the problems that use Van Der Waals equation the variables are given to in all different combinations of units. Being able to switch and convert will be an extreme time saver. When I was planning my code, I did not think about a call back function to “clear all” but when I was writing my code then I realized I needed a way to start over, without rerunning the code, if I make a mistake. This was one of the easiest functions I made but it is also one of the most useful.
  One of the most difficult parts of implementing my idea into code was the two button groups. At first, I tried to make the calculation inside their own call back functions, but this would not work because if you accidently hit the wrong button then it would still automatically do the conversion which means you would have to renter the number which was a hassle. Another difficulty I was dealing with was that if you had a letter or a word in the area that asked for the number it would completely break the code. First, I was thinking about using regular expressions but then I found a statement called “isnan”, which takes in an array or string and makes sure that the string only has number in it. If it has numbers in it then returns a false. This solved my problem with relative ease.
  As I  was creating my uicontrols I did not assign them a specific name. Therefore, as I went to reference them, I did not know what control was assigned to said string. A better use of my time would have been naming  them a more specific name instead of searching the GUI controls, later.  This was a very tedious prosses that could have been completely avoided and caused a lot less headaches. Another problem I had was that when you take roots of a 3rd degree polynomial it gives you three answers. In this situation there will always be one real number and two complex numbers. This was my biggest problem because I could not think of a way for the code tell the difference between complex numbers and real number. I ended up finding the statement “imag” which pulls out the imaginary number of a complex number. If it is a real number then “imag” output is zero, I used this to separate the one real number from the other two complex numbers. 
	In the future I could GUIs in an internship or career setting, where I could right some code to make something more effect, but if the user does not know how to read code, then I could make a GUI so everyone can use it and it is not limited to the people that know how to read code. Anther place that I could use a GUI in my future is if I ever have to present code in a different class, I could make it into a GUI because it looks a lot nicer and more professional.  Also, anytime that I want to make an interface user friendly or for someone that does not know how to read code I will made a GUI feature which makes it a lot easier.  
